# 2017-10-31 Sally Barber, Sian Thomas,

The new food.gov has to be powered by registers if that's the right thing to do.
The issue is that the things being done on food.gov (FHRS, alerts has components
of registers which have already been made in the catalogue -- allergens, maybe
contaminants, Contact Us -- would be silly to make that a register, Business
Guidance -- taxonomies and links with consistent registers for business types
and audiences and so on).

The other thing they need is the food types.  How do you describe the food.
We've built a link dataset that mirrors the European requirements.  Europe are
happy to adopt the FSA's.  "I'm not sure GDS would like to do that" -- Eight
hierarchies and 32 facet hierarchies.  "I think that's for us to manage as a
linked dataset, rather than GDS".

Food alerts and allergy alerts are a new service on food.gov.

FHRS is not a register and won't ever be.  As soon as we build a business
register ...

Allergy and Food alerts, the API is built but not live yet (chicken and egg).
One of the things in the data is the URL for the website.  Some registers are
built into that API.  They weren't working this afternoon!

The meat establishment register isn't anything to do with the Sally's new
website, which is what this meeting is about.

Open Data Catalogue:
* Approved meat
* Shellfish classification
* Banned or restricted imports

Meat establishment is already done in codes in the taxonomy.  But they reuse
approval numbers.  When someone's bought a slaughterhouse including the
packaging with the approval number on it.  Must speak to the approvals team for
the ins and outs.

What isn't in the taxonomy?

Food businesses is difficult because the licenced people aren't necessarily at
the same address as the premis.  And the modern food brokers (Amazon) don't have
a premis at all.

Approved premis (where the animal is slaughtered) would be fine, but the FSA
wouldn't want to go anywhere near the businesses (Pret, etc.).  Tax, business
rates, bin collections.  There are approved bean sprouts premises.

The information asset owner is Simon Dawson and he'd be the custodian.

We update it whenever it changes, but it isn't that often, one or two a month at
most.  The times when it changes the most is when approvals are revoked.

Append-only is fine.  Doesn't have to be redacted.  But it's completely anti-
the approach of the FHRS, but they really prefer to do historic stuff.  Only the
FHRS team disagrees.

Use meat establishments as a canary.  Also allergens -- not Simon, someone else
(the allergens team, not really Michael White but let's say so).

Food authorities can't be done.  It repackages local authority data to split out
trading standards, environmental health, port health and one other.  Quite happy
to take it and run it, and have built the tool, just a shame it's not a register
for everyone else to use.

Would the register be the authoritative source, or would food.gov?  In the
absense of a good way of government doing things, they have built a link between
their catalogue and data.gov.  Registers automatically go to data.gov.  So just
point to the register in the catalogue.

E.g. auction hall only applies to fisheries establishments, but that rule isn't
well defined in the metadata.  I'll look at this, and then phone.

Which other departments have to do work on registers to get spend control
approval?  Ultimately decided by the spend controls board, but we get to see it
and make recommendations.  Earliest date by which we need the allergens register
by 30 November.

The earlier the better for meat.

Notifiable animal disease would be nice ...
They have six reference datasets of animal conditions.  One for each species.
Also a register of species.  If I haven't found the conditions list for all
species, then ask.  Chickens, sheep, pigs, other species.

"We would want to put the alpha publicity through our channels" -- they want to
get a data story by Christmas.

Are we involved in the licensing project (alcohol)?  We should be!  Because they
also sell food.





Competent authority: sometimes local authorities approve premises.
